[MUSIC]
In this lecture we're going to be
talking about animation transitions,
to transition from jump to walk.
So, our lizard jumps onto the screen,
and then starts walking.
Excellent, let's jump in,
pardon the pun and get started.
Okay, first thing I want to show you,
a bit of a neat trick.
If you click on the game object
that has the animation on it,
go to your animation window and
then see where we have lizard sprite.
If you click on the little selector
thing next to that, you can see a mini,
mini preview of what is
happening in that frame.
And that will allow you to scrub
through your animations so
you can see how that looks without
having to click the Play button.
So that's a way to see the animation, if
I was to select and highlight a bunch of
frames in here, I could drag all
of those frames down to the right.
And then what would happen is
we'd do an animation, and then he
would pause on that frame for a long time
and then go into the next animation.
So you can play around with it and do a
little bit of finessing of different parts
of the animation to stretch
out some periods of it.
If you grab the end bar down the end here,
see how there's a little handle at the
right and a little handle at the left when
you've got these selected,
then it will stretch that part of it.
So we could have it playing, playing,
and then a little bit slow, and
then speed up again.
So there's plenty of things you can do,
manually go and
mess around with the speed and
the timing of the animation.
Okay, next up what we're gonna do is,
import a new Sprite Sheet and
slice it up, and I'd like for
you to do that as a challenge.
But first of all, let's together go and
find all of the assets
of the Sprite Sheet And while we're at it,
we'll do the audio as well.
From the asset pack that I gave you in
the last lecture, the downloadable, so
go and find this sprite sheet.
Let's grab all those, so I don't have to
tell you each time I'm bringing in a new
thing hey, I'm going to go and
bring in a new thing.
Let's go bring it all in.
So I'll highlight all
of the sprite sheets.
I'll drag that into Sprites.
Boink there they all are in there,
taking all of it made it,
great I was just thinking about it.
I will find my sounds and then,
while I'm here just go and
drag whatever sounds of
music I've got into there.
Okay, that might take awhile for
you as it imports it all,
but I've gone and
imported all of my sounds in the Sprite.
Let's get a look at the Sprite sheet,
the one thing that I'm interested in for
this video is Lizard Jump.
I've look at Lizard Jump,
there it is, just there.
Okay, Lizard Jump and
it is one, two, three,
by, one, two, three, four, five,
six, seven, eight, nine, 3 by 9.
Okay, so that's the one I want you to
go and find that and import it and
slice it up.
Here's your challenge.
Import a second sprite sheet, well,
I just imported them all, made it
a little bit easier for myself there.
Slice sprite sheet, so
slice the lizard jump sprite sheet,
that's the one that I just pointed out,
lizard jump.
By using a grid by cell size, so
last team we used automatic so
I want you to find within
this bright editor,
the grid by cell size and
make the cells equal size.
And what I mean by that is find
the total width of our sprite sheet and
divide that by the number
of columns that we want.
So what's the total width of this, and
then we have how many columns, 1, 2, 3.
Okay, so I hinted there might be 3.
And then to figure out the total
height and divide by number of rows.
And so that will give you the information
you need when you're looking at the grid
by cell size.
If that doesn't make sense, never fear,
we'll do that together, but
I want you to go ahead and
give that your best shot.
And also, create a new animation
from the individual sprites
that you get when you slice it up, and to
make sure you can preview it and see it.
So there is your mission,
if you choose to accept it and
I will see you back here shortly.
Okay, so as I said I've already found
lizard jump, I'm going to go ahead and
drag, no I'm going to leave it there,
that's a fine place for it.
This folder might get a little bit busy,
so you know what I will do, I will create
a new folder in here, just right click,
create folder, and I'll call this lizard.
And I will go and create another folder,
create folder, and
I will call this, not in use.
So, my logic here is any of the stuff
that I'm not currently using,
I'll just drag it in, minus, I'm holding
on control or command, the Lizard Jump.
I'll do the both bits of the Lizard Jump,
dragging that into the not in use.
Okay and that's my little system,
I'll drag lizard jump into lizard.
That's my little system so I know there's
something in the game, where is it?
If it's in one of these folders
I'm using it in the game,
if it's in this one then
I'm not using it yet.
You can lay out however you want but
that's how it works for me.
So we have lizard jump and you know what,
we also need, where's my other one,
where's my other lizard in here?
My Lizard Walk that we've already
sliced up, so drag that into lizard.
Okay, there's walk and lizard jump,
let's click on lizard jump,
and drag back down my preview, find our
sprite mode, change that to multiple.
Click Apply, jump over into sprite editor
by clicking on the Sprite Editor button
up to slice and
we want to slice grid by cell size, okay?
I'm sure you found this in
the challenge but we're looking for
the pixel size x by x, so when we
slice it up we want to slice up every,
in this instance it would be every 64.
So I'll just click slice, see what happens
here, there's no harm in doing that.
Every 64 pixels it puts in a slice,
64 puts in a slice and same with the,
from top to bottom, and bring my thing
back up, on the Y axis we slice,
slice, slice every 64.
Okay so you can see that's slicing
right in the middle of our character,
that's no good, how do we figure this out?
Well we go and find our sprite sheet
that we clicked on here, the lizard jump
sprite sheet, and you can see down on
the bottom it says it's 753 by 1674.
So we fire up the calculator.
Calculator and 753, 753 divided by,
well how many columns do we have?
We have three, and that equals 251,
so each of these needs to be 251.
Assuming that our artist,
whoever created this, and
we don't know who made it,
laid them out in equal position.
If this is just a big hodge-podge
of things just everywhere,
then it won't work so well, but we can
see it's been laid out nice and neatly.
You can see the little,
the portal thing the lizard's jumping out
of is in the same spot in
each of these columns.
Okay, so 251, we'll write that down,
and then height, here is 1674.
You can see down in the bottom right, so
1674, divided by, and we have nine,
I counted those up before, equals 186,
so write that down as well.
Excellent, op and up in my slice up here,
we want to have 251 by 186,
I'm gonna click on the Slice.
Now when I click on any of these you
can see it looks pretty darn good.
Okay so let's click on Apply,
close that down, jump back over into here.
We've got our jump highlight all
of the jump frames, right-click,
create animation.
Boink, 1 to 4,
I'll call this animation Lizard Jump.
Drag Lizard Jump animation
into my animations folder.
Now we have Lizard Jump and
Lizard Walk, excellent.
Now, if I click on Lizard Jump,
you can see the little,
little preview that I showed you before,
it's looking nice and tidy.
And then, how do we preview this,
well, we grab our lizard game object,
drag it over into our preview window,
and then when we click on play,
whoops, zoom out a little bit.
The lizard jumps and
then lands, excellent.
It's all nicely positioned,
I think it looks good.
Okay, next that we want to add, so
that was the challenge, next that we wanna
add this to our animator controller.
So our lizard has an animator controller,
we view that within the animator window
here, and you can see at the moment
we just have our lizard walk.
I'll give myself a little bit of space,
excellent, now we wanna put in the jump.
So what we wanna do is the lizard jumps
from probably off screen here, or not off
screen but from the right, and jumps
into this frame and then starts walking.
So we need to have a transition, we need
to say, start with the jump animation and
then transition into the walk animation.
This line here is a transition from
entries going straight into walk.
So basically it's starting in walk
the first thing that happens, and
we wanna change that,
we wanna go straight into jump.
I'm gonna click on lizard walk,
delete that and start this afresh.
Drag in lizard jump, and now
automatically it says going from entry,
the very first thing I do is
the lizard jump, which is good.
Let's just click play to
see if that's working.
Was it does, it jump, boink, and
there it is, perfect, excellent.
Now we want to go to lizard
jump to lizard walk.
Mini challenge for you if you can
figure this out how to do that.
Okay, that was me pausing if you
wanted to take this on as a challenge.
What I'll do is drag in lizard walk,
you can put it anywhere in here,
it doesn't matter.
I can move things out of the way, it's all
about the connected line relationship as
opposed to where they're positioned.
If you're wondering what any state means,
that's if you want to have an animation
where you say for example from any state
at all, if the character gets shot.
We want that character to change animation
to do like a recoil or like a death or
something, then you can have the any
state transition into these other states.
So that's why any state is there,
just as a handy way to say,
anything can go into state or
any state can go into anything else.
So we're not gonna use that at
the moment so just ignore that for now.
What we'll do is right click on
lizard jump, make transition,
drag it to lizard walk as simple as that,
do that one more time.
So right click and
the animation you want to go from,
click on Make Transition and
them move your arrow around.
So I'm not holding my mouse
button down just yet,
I'm now hovering around over to go.
It will snap and
then I click my mouse button,
and now it's making a transition
from Lizard Jump into Lizard Walk.
Lizard Jump,
let's just have a look at that animation.
Okay, it's not looping,
that's important, we're gonna say,
whenever you finish lizard jump,
then just go straight to lizard walk.
We'll get more complicated with
our transitions in the future,
where we have a condition in the game
that will change the animation, but for
now we're just saying finish the jump,
go into walk.
Okay, back to clicking
on this transition here.
Okay, when you click on the transition,
you get a whole bunch of information,
a whole bunch of stuff going on.
We can see up here, the lizard jump
to lizard walk is the transition.
We can turn it off, we can delete it,
we can do a few other cool things up here.
And then we have this little settings
selector that allows you to open it up.
And then this window is showing us where
our transition is going to take place.
This is a little bit more relevant
when you've got 3D animation, and
you can blend from one state to the other.
So if an arm is up in the air and
then an arm is down by the side, and
then you want to blend the two together,
and it will blend it more neatly.
But with our 2D sprites, it's a little
bit more that it just pops from one to
another, so don't worry about
having this blended overlap here.
So the transition duration,
I am going to turn that to 0 and
the exit time I'll put to 1
saying after you get the whole
way through doing a lizard jump
then go in and do lizard walk.
So let's see if this works now just as is,
click on play.
Jump and then, walk, walk, walk, okay, so
one problem it snaps up to the top,
can you figure out why that is?
Here's another challenge for you,
figure out why our lizard has
snapped to a slightly different position
and then is playing its animation.
So if you've been through animation before
you might already have a thought on this,
so pause the video,
see if you can figure that out.
Okay, hopefully you gave that a shot,
and let's have a look at it together.
So if I have a look at my lizard walk
animation, specifically if I go and
look at my sprite sheet.
Go to Lizard and then look for
Lizard Walk, click on my sprite editor.
If you remember,
we did a slice automatically.
And, the reason we did automatic is well,
we only had this animation and
we wanted to have it nice and
tightly framed around it.
So this method worked when
it was just this lizard and
we didn't have to go from animation A,
the jump, to animation B, the walk.
So in this case we can't just do
automatic where we're tightly cropped
around the lizard.
That would be fine normally, but
we need to have it consistent with
what the lizard jump is doing.
So then we go back up to Slice,
Automatic, Grid by Cell Size.
So let's just quickly click on our
lizard walk sprite sheet, open that up,
see what the dimension there are.
753, that was the same as before, so
753 divided to by 3 going to
be 251 as we had last time.
So slice 251, and
then let's just check up and
down, it's 1116, where is my calculator?
Get my calculator back.
1116 divided by, and we've got one,
two, three, four, five,
six underneath that, six, 186, okay,
it's exactly the same as it was before.
That is perfect, I like to see that.
By 186, click on slice, now you can
see it's a much bigger footprint but
the lizard is in consistent
position each time.
And not surprisingly if it was
to jump out of a hole here,
[SOUND] it lands just there.
Okay, click Apply, close that window,
I clicked Apply, but
click Apply again a couple of times,
here we go.
Okay, so we don't need to do anything
else, just slicing it up differently,
the animation system knows that,
it's all cool.
If we click on Play, now it should jump,
I only play that once and
then [SOUND] click in
to looping on the walk.
Excellent, the only last thing here,
it looks like the jump is coming
up pretty slowly so
let's find the animation for jump.
And you can see,
we can see when clicking on lizard,
we've got the jump just here,
yep, that's the jump animation.
I might make this 24 samples as well,
I think we're just gonna do everything 24
cuz it looks like that's how the artist
created all this animation with
the expectation of 24 per frame.
Okay, cool so we've got our jump
transitioning into our walk, which means
that we've got some great stuff for
our lizard emerging onto the screen.
Excellent, well done,
that's introduction to transitions and
I'll see you in the next video.